---
layout: post
title:  "downlink: scrape documents linked from a web page"
description: "Open source command-line tool for downloading all links from a web page"
date:   2018-09-22 15:20:00 -0500
categories: python
emoji: 📥
---

For my work as a data editor I often have to download all of the files
linked from a particular web page. That's why I made downlink, a
command-line utility and a Python library.

* [Here it is on GitHub](https://github.com/jakekara/downlink-py)
* [Here it is on pip](https://pypi.org/project/downlink/)

The basic product is the command line utility, called downlink. The
secondary product is the library of classes used to build it. They are
reasonably extensible, so you could build them into more powerful tools.

### Quickstart

    $ pip install downlink
    $ mkdir output
    $ downlink "https://www.ct.gov/doh/cwp/view.asp?a=4513&q=530462" output

I haven't put in any error handling, so if things happen, like the web
address you give it is invalid, or the output folder doesn't exist for
writing, then it'll just crash. That's on my TODO list.

Here's the output from downlink --help

      usage: downlink [-h] [--ext EXT] url dst

      Download all the links of a given file extension from a web page.

      positional arguments:
	url         A valid URL to download links from
	dst         A path to a directory in which to save the files

      optional arguments:
	-h, --help  show this help message and exit
	--ext EXT   the file extension/type of file to download

### Abstraction outline

Referring to the GitHub repo above, the two "library" files in the repo are
linkscraper.py and document_linkscraper.py, which contain the classes
LinkScraper and DocumentLinkScraper respectively.

The idea with this abstraction is that LinkScraper fetches and HTML
document and  pulls out all of the links (the a tags). It has a
filter_links method, but the default is to leave them all in.

The DocumentLinkScraper subclasses LinkScraper and overrides the
filter_links method to only return True if it is a link to a document of a
given file extension (specified when instantiating the object).

This abstraction could be useful if you want to do something else with
other types of links, perhaps links that contain onclick attributes.

One thing that bugs me about this design is that LinkScraper fetches remote
HTML. I feel like that functionality belongs in a different object, but I
did not want to over-engineer this. 